# whale-detection-usvi-and-pr

#THIS WILL BE UPDATED ONCE THE REPOSITORY IS COMPLETED#

A repository of the data collected and R scripts written for the project titled "The automated detection and classification of baleen whale calls using PAM-equipped Slocum gliders in the USVI and Puerto Rico". The data included in this repository is in its raw ".wav" format, from all eight Slocum glider missions conducted for this project. Acoustic data was analyzed further for the detection of whale calls using the LFDCS (Baumgartner and Mussoline 2011), which requires the LFDCS program and an IDL (NV5) license, and MinkeNet (Mouy et al., 2025), which requires Python through the program, Conda.

This repository includes:
1. FOLDER NAMES FOR EACH MISSION - NAMES PUT IN PAPER AND USED DURING MISSIONS: All raw low-frequency acoustic data collected using a DMON2 computer during the eight Slocum glider missions around the United States Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico and associated files required for processing of the data in LFDCS and MinkeNet. This research utilized data collected from the low-frequency hydrophone which was sampled with a continuous duty cycle and recorded frequency range of 10 Hz – 2 kHz.

2. FOLDER NAME: Spreadsheets generated by the LFDCS and MinkeNet with summary data of automated detections from each mission and counts of verified whale calls by the analyst. Note that the automated and analyst-verified detections are combined for humpback, sei, and fin whales, analyzed in LFDCS, but are separate files for common minke whales, analyzed in MinkeNet.

3. Folder Name: R scripts used for the statistical analysis of whale data, where whales were present.

4. Folder Name: R scripts used for the generation of maps for this project.

